Sentiment Analysis Web Application
==================================
This is a sentiment analysis tool that allows you to generate sentiment analysis plots for various characters in screenplays. Screenplays must be supplied in doc, docx or odt format. Recommended source for screenplays is https://imsdb.com/. 

This sentiment analysis program works in three basic steps:
1) Extract the lines of dialogue from the uploaded screenplay that are spoken by the character indicated by the user. These lines are saved to a .txt file for analysis.
2) Conduct sentiment analysis using the sentiment_analysis.R script (this makes use of the syuzhet library) and return the result to a sentiment_analysis.csv file as well as generating a valence plot.
3) Visualisation in Python, which produces an additional plot to the one generated by the R script.

The plots generated show the following:

1) The valence plot shows the intensity/variation of the positive/negative emotion of the character throughout the screenplay. This can be useful for assessing a character's emotional trajectory.
2) The bar-chart shows the ratios of each emotion experienced by the character throughout the whole film.

With thanks to the developers of the syuzhet pacakge for R, which is used for conducting the sentiment analysis in this application.

NOTE: The first time you run the application it may take a couple of minutes to install and run the relevant R scripts. This web application runs on Flask, with the backend written in Python and R.

QUICK USE GUIDE:

1) Ensure you have all the necessary packages installed in your Python environment (Flask, docx etc.). A requirements file for conda and pip is included in the repo to speed up
the installation of dependent packages. Ensure you have R installed.
2) Run the webpage locally and access using localhost:5000
3) Go to the imsdb website and find a screenplay you want to analyse.
4) Copy the contents of the screenplay into a Word document and save it.
5) Fill out the boxes on the website, uploading your screenplay, then hit the button to analyse.


Make sure to save the plots when they are generated as these are not persistent across sessions.
